### ⚡oct1
- __Country database__
  - name
  - capital
  - currency
  - flag
  - population
  - size
  - continent 
- what if there is an update to a existing docker image

### ⚡oct2

- changing vsCode statusbar color.


### ⚡oct3       
 
  <details>
  <summary>Click</summary>   

  - point1
  - point2
    - subpoint1
    
  </details>

<details>
<summary>NaNo</summary>

  - `ctrl + O` only saves
  - `ctrl + X` exits 
</details>

1. snippet for repeating code in vs code 
2. what is the use of `$uri` ?
3. what does `*` do in `/path//*.xyz`     

    

4. nginx 'rewrite' and 'alias'  
    -  alias goes to the actual location and servers a file. no url change. 
    -  while rewitre just changes the url.      
    -  it depends on the correct url. u may or may not change the url visibilty.

5.  Using Block. 
          
         - skip one whole line.  
         - and 4 tab space.
         - covers whole width of the screen.
         - can not use bullet points.
        🔹 use this emoji instead of bullet points

6.  **http :80 https :443  ssh :22**       

### ⚡oct4   
1. ideas for test webpages and use them as docker test images.  

2. `access.log -> /dev/stdout`  
    its a symbolic link 

3. using `achor tag and href `inside the index.html page on a ec2 nginx server for routing, within a folder.
4. `href` vs `src`    
5. Git repo creation problem fixed.
  
       fix1  
       🔹make folder in pc and a repo in github  
       🔹get the repo url ,open gitbash in pcfolder,git init
       🔹add . ; commit ; remote add origin ; push orgin 
       🔹make sure the branch is main, incase use git checkout -b main   

       fix2
       🔹 make a repo on github , add readme , commit 
       🔹 go to the desired pcfolder where u want to have the pulled repo files.
       🔹 git pull repo url ,now u r at par with the remote repo
       🔹 do ur code thing --> add . --> commit --> git push origin , *u may have to remote add url.
        
        

### ⚡oct5
1. making a single page test webpage with css and javascript within the html file.  
2. install winSCP for connecting linux and my windows pc.
3. in order to use winSCP,u have to make the linux server login as password based rather than key based.

        🔹key-based authentication
        🔹password based authentication
        🔹paswordLess authentication(bcoz key-pair already placed)  
        
        ✨pasword based linux server.
         - go to oct6
         




4. Presently not able to conect winSCP and a linux instance using keybased authentication.  
   
        - for now make the instance login as Password based.
        - then try winSCP login.

        fix
        - use public ip to login 
        - new issue, no access as root user ,therfore permission denid to copy files.

        problem : permission denied
        fix:
        - just copy in respective user folder; move it later to other user;  
         give required permission to that user

5. can u have multiples keys for the same server , for login auth.
6. changing url of github repo.

        🔻 if the github repo is renamed. 
        🔻 git remote -v
        🔻 git remote set-url origin <new-repo-url>


7. the permission is being denied because u are tring to opearte as a  different user  

    - just copy the files  as the existing usr in winSCP
    - from ur linux machine copy/move the files to the other desired user
    - provide permission if any error  
       - give chmod 777 /to/dir  
       - give chmod to files 
    - if u want u can revoke the permission later ,but this can cause problem if it is used as a webserver files  
      beacause the web request will be deined .   

     u can acheive desire objective like this...


### ⚡oct6 

- linux permission
- password auth
- test webpage
- docker image
    - adhoc
    - image build

1. file permission ??
    - /home/praka
    - /home/praka/web
    - inside web dir , index.html index.css index.just  

2. in linux,  
  -  useradd cheeta ,but no cheeta dir in home dir  
     did useradd cheeta again, it says useralready exists
     use `useradd -m praka`  
     this will create a dir ,otherwise make manually

   - `getent passwd` this will list all users     
   - incus try it 30 min server     

3. You can't use the same id for multiple elements because id values must be unique in HTML.  
   When you try to select elements by id, only the first one is targeted. This is a fundamental rule of the DOM.   

4. element analogy for using forEach is excellent



### ⚡oct7

1. power
    - in windows cmd `powercfg/batteryrepot`
    - ocasianally charge ur lappy to 100%.
    - 60% charge threshold

2. Usr names    
   |praka|naga|rataa|
   |:---:|:---:|:---:|
   |cheeta|sanda|-add|
   |nandi|dogra|-add|
   |ambr|maddy|-add|
   |billy|billa|-add|


### ⚡oct8
- airforce day   

1. 
    - |read|write|execute|  
      |:---|:---:|---:|
      |4|2|1|
    - Owner Group User
    - drwxrwxrwx `dir`
    - -rwxrwxrwx `file`

2. chowm chmod

3. if no x permission usr can not use `ls` or `ll`
4. permissions essential for a webserver folder and files.

### ⚡oct 9

- worked on githubprofile readme  
  - aligned stats card
  - used html tags in md file  
  - learned to change theme and various other parameters in a profile genrator.


### ⚡oct10

1. username rata
2. linux equivalent of chronjob and script file in windows.  
    - `.cmd`or`.bat` extenstion in microsoft windows
    - with gui   
      - win+R --> write `taskschd.msc`  
      - create basic taskschd
    - command line
     - `schtasks /create /tn "MyTask" /tr "C:\path\to\script.bat" /sc daily /st 14:00`

            🔹/tn - Task Name
            🔹/tr - Task to Run
            🔹/sc - Schedule
            🔹/st - Start Time

3. in linux 
  - `id` if zero ,indicates `root user`            

### ⚡oct11
1. revised DOM concepts in a tiny project.
  - periodic table project to learn and understand  
    - flex-box
    - using classes in css  
    - a little bit of animation

   - todo list project  
     - creating elements
     - using functions on click event 
     
            🔹querrySelectorAll returns a array of elements associated with that id    
            🔹use forEach loop to assign function to each element of that array  
            🔹using addEventListner
            🔹cosnt li = document.createElement('li')

            ✨important function - 
            function qmaker(){
              cosnt msg = 'greet';
              const para = document.createEl
              ement('marquee')
              para.innerText = msg
              para.setAttribute('direction','up')
              console.log(para.innerText)
              const dd = document.querrySelectorAll('.class1')
              console.log(dd)
              
              dd.forEach(element=>{element.appendChild(para.clonenode(true))})          
            }
            qmaker()

   - use `.clonenode(true)` so that the element is cloned and available for further forEach elements        

### ⚡oct12

1. cisco training

### oct 13
### oct 14
### ⚡oct 15

1. parse?
2. htb academy free linux terminal - networkchuck  

### oct16   
### ⚡oct17 
  - hackerone.com
  - owasp.org



### oct 18
1. Upgrad free courses register
2. coddy tech register 
3. docker images for kubectl pods.

### ⚡oct19  
- 👉Learn AI and Get Certified by NVIDIA...utlimately
1. threeJS is a standalone web3D library.   
2. react has different thing called react 3fiber.
3. explore more on using a docker image (web page) inside a kubernetes pods/cluster and access it on browser. 
4. bigdaa baaone, baa1, 52 

### ⚡oct20 
- explore vite!
- earlier i was using a yaml file to write notes for a 3Js project 
- use `yaml on;y for devops related work`   
- avoid eating ...  
- for writing important points for a project only use `MD` syntax,period.  

***Learning ThreeJS***
- using cdn link `nodeJs not required`
- npm threeJs `nodeJs required`
- webGL 
 
        🔹scene   
        🔹camera  
        🔹mesh-->geometry and material  
        🔹renderer  
        🔹requestAnimationFrame  