### ⚡nov8

#### ✨after a diwali break, back t it again

- css grid again
- why flex box  
            
      🔹incase u remove a element it will adjust according to available elements  
      🔹no gaps   
      🔹 `backtick`     
               

### ⚡nov11 
- explore web accessiblity 
- 

### ⚡nov13
- outline vs border
- why linux is lighter than other os?
- targetting nested classes in css `.class .subclass{}`


### ⚡nov14  
- `.` in grid 
- `em`,`rem`,`%` and `fr` in css  

- block Heading (short .md syntax practice)
  >- you can use - directly here to make a bullet  
  >- also can use `backtick`
  >- its just that the syntax is little complex compare to one blank and 3tab space.
  >>also observe use of two angles brackets
  >>>now three angle brackets for further subclassification  
  >>>little more points    
  >>>now two again  
  >>>finally out of it. 
  >- single bullet point

more on grids

### ⚡nov15
- in css `.class .subclass` vs `.class.subclass`
- css background image size `cover`vs`contain`  
- mediaquerysynatx  
  > @media (condition) {  
  >/* CSS rules */  
  >}

### ⚡nov16   
- start using css and js file so that it is reflected in github stats.   
- ✨✨new hobby => `StoryTelling` for leadership developement and english fluency improvement.

### ⚡nov18
- a tag with href refer a div using id.
- script tag using `defer`
- scroll snap
- main > section{} in css ?

### ⚡nov20
- css nesting
- container query

### ⚡nov21
- what is `dvh` unit in css?

### ⚡nov22
- `.parent>.sec:nth-child(odd){b-g-c:#663399}`  
-  behaviour of justify-content and align-items depends on flex direction.  
- 
        scroll-snap-type: y mandatory ; on a html tag  
        scroll-snap-align:start ; on children  
- `Alt+z` word wrap in vscode  

-  
                  .mainCls.subCls$*3>h1{page$}+p  
                      
      <div class="mainCls subCls1">  
          <h1>Page1</h1>  
          <p>lorem</p>  
      </div>            

